Welcome to iOS accessibility.
My name is Chris Fleizach.
I'm on the iOS accessibility team.
Today I want to talk about how
do you take your app to the next
level in terms of accessibility.
I'm going to be saying the word
accessibility a lot in this presentation.
So what do I mean when I say this word?
It can have a lot of different meanings.
Mainly I'm talking about using
technology to overcome challenges.
So things like computer
controlled wheelchairs,
assistive communication devices
like ProLogo to go for the iPad,
screen readers,
so people with low vision and
blindness can use computers,
and of course there's many,
many other examples of this.
On iOS we have a number of
accessibility features that are
designed to help people use a device
in the same way that everyone does.
So VoiceOver is one of
our flagship products.
It allows people who are blind,
have low vision to use
a touch screen device.
It works by changing the gestures
that are used so that instead
of a touch to activate model,
you have a touch to speak model.
So this provides a safe environment
to explore the phone without worrying
about something that will happen.
We also have Zoom.
Zoom allows you to use three finger
gestures to zoom in and to pan around
so you can get in close on text and
read things if you have low vision.
In iOS 5.0 we added assistive touch.
Assistive touch allows access
to all the hardware buttons,
multi-finger gestures,
even creating custom gestures
through either a hardware device
or if you only have access to
a single finger or a stylus,
you can also drive these gestures.
[Transcript missing]
We've also added some enhancements
that's built upon previous work.
So custom vibrations was added in 5.0.
It only applied to phone
calls and FaceTime,
though.
In 6.0, it will apply to everything.
So if you want a custom vibration
for a text message from your wife,
for example,
you can set that and have it play
specifically just for a text message.
And that applies to calendar alerts,
Facebook items, reminders,
and the whole list of notifications.
VoiceOver and Zoom finally
worked together.
Before, there was conflicts between
the gestures being used.
We've overcome some of those so that
you can use them at the same time.
and we made a number of
enhancements to SpeakSelection,
which I want to show you now.
SpeakSelection was introduced in 5.0.
It allows you to select some
text and have it spoken.
We made two enhancements
that I want to show.
One is much better support
for multiple languages.
So I have the same sentence
in three languages,
English, Arabic, and Greek.
And now if I want to speak them,
Speak selection tells me that there
are English and two other languages
available and when I select those.
The revolutionary iPhone also includes
an equally revolutionary screen reader.
iPhone is also included in the
revolutionary screen reader.
The revolutionary phone also
includes a six-way revolutionary
program for computer recognition.
So, can automatically detect
languages based on script and
other identifying information.
If there are ambiguous languages,
we look around and see what
other languages you might
want to speak at any time.
So, much better smarts for
international support.
We've also added
word-by-word highlighting.
So, if I go to...
Turn on highlight words in the
speak selection menu and come back.
When we speak these items now,
the revolutionary iPhone also includes
an equally revolutionary screen reader.
iPhone Thauria yatadoumenou aydon
qari ishashati Thauria ala hadsa wa.
To epanastatiko telephono perilambani
episis ena eksisu epanastatiko
programma anagnosis othonis.
So I'm sure you got all of that,
but just some of the enhancements
that we've added for speak selection.
So let's talk about what the meat
of this presentation is about,
and that's really using
UI accessibility to make your app
more accessible for voiceover.
Now, why is this important?
VoiceOver is a special application.
VoiceOver is used to overcome
a very challenging difficulty,
blindness, which made more so by the
touchscreen in and of itself.
So,
making your app accessible means that you
implement some API and a VoiceOver user
can get more information out of your
app and know how to use it effectively.
So, we're going to be talking
about the basic API,
how do you do the most important
things to make your app work well.
We're going to be talking
about the new API for the
things that we've added in 6.0.
And then I want to have a
deeper dive into some things
that you may not have known.
This is the fourth year
that we've done this.
Some of you might be very
familiar with the API,
and I think there's some things
that you'll be able to learn.
So how does this work?
VoiceOver is running on
iOS when you turn it on.
And it intercepts all gestures.
So when I touch somewhere, for example,
I touch somewhere in notes,
VoiceOver intercepts that and says
what's the element at this point?
And it does that by going through
UI accessibility and then asking the app.
The app gathers some information
about what's at a specific point
and then bundles that up and
sends it back over to VoiceOver.
VoiceOver is then able to take that
and transform it into synthesized
speech or maybe Braille output
or some other alternative output
that's appropriate for the user.
So how do we add
accessibility to your app?
The good news is a lot
of it comes for free.
So if you're using UI kit
controls to do things,
most of it is just going to work.
So your job in that case
is mostly to add labels.
Things that are images or buttons
that have images inside of them.
All you need to do is set a label most of
the time and things will start to work.
So most of this information is
conveyed through attributes.
Attributes are the core
of an accessibility API.
Basically,
they allow you to encode certain
information about an object so
the voiceover knows what to do.
So, for example,
we have a UI image view here.
By default,
this has some attributes built in.
Specifically, we know the file name.
So here, you know,
voiceover might have seen the
image view and known that the file
name is Apple logo 512 by 512.
But obviously,
that's not a great user experience
if that's what they're hearing.
So instead, it's up to you to set the
appropriate attribute,
in this case, the label for it.
And the label might be
something like Apple logo.
The two most important attributes
in the API address the fundamental
questions about is your app accessible.
One,
can a VoiceOver user reach an element?
Can they touch and have it spoken?
And then two, what will be spoken?
The first question is answered
in is accessibility element.
You return yes, that means VoiceOver will
be able to see it.
The second question is answered
with accessibility label.
Accessibility label is a string
that you can return that will be the
textual representation of the object.
By default,
these are filled in for UIKit controls,
so a UI label automatically returns
its text for the accessibility label.
Some other common attributes,
accessibility hint is a good
way to provide a little bit more
information about what to do if the
context is not completely clear.
It's optional.
And accessibility traits provide you with
a way to control what are the behaviors,
the roles, other important information
about this object.
Is it selected?
Is it a link or a button?
So a little bit more about the traits.
Say we have a screen
that looks like this.
At the top we have an element that might
be labeled with a static text trait.
In the middle, we have an element that
has the image trait.
Towards the bottom, there is a button.
And at the bottom,
very bottom is a slider which
would have an adjustable trait.
So there's about 16 or 15 or so
traits that allow you to decide how
VoiceOver will interact with something.
So how do we go about
and add these attributes?
Obviously there's some
objectives to see methods,
but you can also add them
through interface builder.
So in the inspector pane,
you might see a screen that
looks a little bit like this,
and all the information we talked
about is encoded here as well.
Is accessibility element
corresponds to this checkbox?
Accessibility label is the label,
hint the hint,
and then this array of traits where
you can select what's appropriate.
So interface builder is great if you
sort of have a static design or a
button just is there all the time.
But if you have a little bit
more dynamic of an interface
or you're doing things in code,
you may need to set values in code.
So one way is to use the setters.
Say, for example,
we have a my control object.
By default,
things that are just UI controls
don't have any accessibility.
So you need to go in there and set
is accessibility element yes and set
the appropriate accessibility label.
In this case, maybe it's a play button.
If you have objects that change
their value or change their label
depending on your data model,
you may need to override.
You don't just have to use the setters.
You can override and say, yes,
this is an accessibility element
and my accessibility label is
something that's appropriate.
Accessibility attributes,
that will take you 85% of the way there.
Most of the work you'll do will
just be setting attributes here
and there and your apps are going
to become a lot more accessible.
Now, sometimes you also need to tell
VoiceOver when things happen.
And these are done through
accessibility notifications.
So when a few things
change on the screen,
you need to tell VoiceOver to update.
So if we look at this example in Clock,
when you press the edit button,
what do you get?
Well,
there's a few new elements on the screen.
A delete switch,
something disappears and so on.
In that case, you need to tell
VoiceOver to update itself.
Just a few things have happened.
To do that, we call UI accessibility
post notification with a
layout change argument.
The other type of notification
that's important is the
screen change notification.
This is when the whole
context switches out,
VoiceOver needs to update itself,
it will play a sound,
it will move to a new element, and so on.
And you do that similarly by sending
the screen change notification.
So, for example, if you select a new tab
in the tab controller,
that will generate a screen change.
And these are sent for all the
basic UIKit controls already.
It's only if you're doing custom
things do you need to worry
about these notifications.
So that's going to take
you 90% of the way there.
Notifications and attributes,
are really the most important
things you have to worry about
when making your app accessible.
So let's start in with the demo and
some of the code and see what we can do.
The demo app that we're using this
year is one that I've created.
It's called the NSZombie Apocalypse.
Let's see how the app works before
we try to make it accessible.
Then we can look at it with VoiceOver.
So basically the zombies,
the NSZombies are
running amok in your app.
And when things happen,
more zombies go and eventually you run
out of memory and the app will crash.
So your job is to keep deploying
these memory release techniques
like arc or auto release and you
can make these zombies go away.
I believe I have some sounds, too.
If you use garbage collection,
that will actually add more
memory to your program,
so don't do that one.
We also have this little help screen
with a little story that I wrote.
So, the question -- so this
is how you play the app.
The question is:
How do we make it accessible?
So the first step to doing that
is to turn on voiceover and sort
of audit it for accessibility.
So how do we do that?
The easiest way to do that is to
go to settings and -- let's see.
Go to accessibility and then
you go to triple click home and
set VoiceOver to triple click.
Once we do that,
we can triple click and VoiceOver will
turn on and off when you toggle that.
Let's go back to our app,
turn on VoiceOver.
Landscape.
Home button to the left.
NSZombie Apocalypse.
Let's start to examine
what's wrong with the app.
The first thing, if I try to touch in the
zombie meter... VoiceOver on.
Zombie meter.
Nothing really happens.
An object was retained too many times.
Six minutes.
I can touch that.
So that looks fairly standard.
What about the buttons?
Self-release.
So it didn't say it was a button and
also the frames are rather small.
That one just says button.
: There's a screen change here,
but nothing really happened.
Those ones also say button.
If I start to examine by swiping
around so I can move from element
to element by doing a swipe gesture.
Self-delock, self-release, self-autority,
garbage, self-free button.
An object was zombiemeter.
So I can swipe through and go through
all the elements in the screen and
find out if something's missing.
I also wasn't able to touch
on the zombies at all.
That's sort of an empty area.
So there's a few things that we can
do to make this a better experience.
One, we can make sure that the
zombiemeter is described.
We can make sure the
zombies are elements.
We can make sure the buttons
say that they're buttons.
We can probably give some hints about
what to do because it's not immediately
clear what you do with those buttons.
And then obviously there's
the Help Button needs some
labels and stuff like that.
So let's go to the code
and see what we can do.
I wrote down a bug list and I also
have some screenshots so it will be
easy to look at what we want to do.
So here, the buttons at the bottom
are not really buttons.
That means that, let's see,
these buttons are not really buttons.
So instead, we need to make sure that
: How do we do that?
Let's look at here and
go to our button view.
How come it didn't speak button?
Well, it looks like the button
view is just a UI control.
Inside of that,
there's a label which looks like the
thing that VoiceOver was focusing on
and then it does some other stuff.
How do we do this?
Is accessibility element return yes?
And then let's return the label.
What is the label for this button?
The label is likely just
the text of the label view.
And then finally we need to
set the traits to say button.
So that will make sure that the
buttons behave like buttons.
Now the buttons also need some hints.
So how do we do that?
Let's override
[Transcript missing]
So hopefully that should give
enough context what to do.
Now the zombiemeter description
sort of needs a label.
So all I could touch was on
that label of the zombiemeter.
Luckily there's a class
called zombiemeter.
It's just a UI view with
a label inside of it.
So what we're going to do
is make this an accessibility element.
So you just have to find
one giant zombie meter.
We'll make sure it has the right label.
And that will also be
the text of the label.
And then we want to return
the value of the zombie meter.
The thing kept going up and up.
It has some sort of
percentage associated with it.
So in that case,
we can use something that
I haven't mentioned yet,
which is called accessibility-value.
Value is great for things that change,
that have some dynamically
changing value to it.
So in this case,
we can return in a string,
a string with format and percent 0f,
percent percent.
zombie level times 100.
Great.
So that would give me
accessibility value.
Now the question mark
buttons need a label.
So let's look at our
question mark button here.
It looks like it takes a symbol
and might have been a question
mark or an X or something.
And then it looks like it
does a draw rect right in
the middle with that string.
So it draws a rect with the
circle and then it looks like
it has a label beneath it.
So we added a label
subview to that button.
So we can see why
VoiceOver doesn't speak anything.
There's a button and there's
a label inside of it.
So what we have to do is tell
VoiceOver to speak the right thing.
Now we could say it speak
whatever that label has.
We could tell it speak
question mark or X.
But that's not the semantic
information about the button.
The button is really about
Help or Close or something like that.
So let's find out where
we set these things.
and set the right accessibility
label with a setter.
We can call this one help
and find the next one.
This one looks like it
should say next or something.
And the last one is hiding here.
Looks like this is a help one.
[Transcript missing]
When you press the question mark,
VoiceOver needs to reset itself.
When we're on the screen and we press
that X or we press the question mark,
we need to reset itself so
VoiceOver knows the context has changed.
How do we do that?
Let's find out where that happens.
I'm looking at question pressed.
This looks like the right place.
I'm going to post an
accessibility notification.
screen change notification.
So that will tell VoiceOver to reset
when the question mark is pressed.
Let's also do the same thing
when we close the help.
: So that will be good.
And then our final bug,
the zombies should be
elements and have labels.
So where are those zombies hiding?
The ZBE walking dead.
It looks like they have
a bunch of body parts.
Let's just find a body and then
we can set accessibility element
and the accessibility label
will be something appropriate.
So make sure you also
localize all your strings.
I'm not doing that now
for the sake of brevity,
but VoiceOver speaks
like 30 languages or so.
So make sure you use localization if
your app is going to be localized.
All right.
So we tried that.
NSZombie Apocalypse.
Zombie meter,
0%. So we check the zombie meter.
15%. So saying the right percentage.
Walking dead in the house.
Great.
I can touch the zombie if I want to.
Self-release button.
It says self-release button.
Memory technique over zombies
and release to deploy.
And that was the hint.
If we can trust the help button.
Help button.
When we press the help button,
we should reset.
Great.
So we reset to the top of the screen.
Let's check.
That says the right thing.
So let's close.
Zombie meter, 35%. Chris Fleizach:
So we also went to the
first element in the screen,
which was the zombie meter in that case.
Zombie meter, 42%. Chris Fleizach:
So it looks like we have
addressed all those bugs.
The app is becoming more and
more usable all the time.
So let's go back and
So those are the basic
accessibility attributes.
With just a little bit of work,
we can start to make our
apps more accessible,
even something as dynamic and
graphically intense as that game is.
So let's talk about what's new in 6.
We've already learned that
with just a little bit of
work we can get a lot of gain.
So where do we go from here?
We've added new ways to
interact with VoiceOver.
We've added some new attributes
and traits to help make
your app more complete.
And something I won't demo,
but if you have a custom text
view based on UI text input,
VoiceOver will work with it natively.
No extra work required as long
as you implement UI text input.
So let's look at the new API.
First one,
Accessibility Perform Magic Tap.
So what is this?
So if you've used VoiceOver,
you may know that there's a gesture.
It's a two-finger double tap.
When you do a two-finger double tap,
VoiceOver does the magic thing.
This means if you're playing music,
it will pause the music.
If you're in a phone call,
it will answer the phone call
or hang up the phone call.
If you're in the clock app,
it will start or stop the stopwatch.
If you're in camera,
it will take a picture.
So two-finger double tap
magically does the right thing
in whatever context you're in.
You can also add this to your app, too,
if you need to.
So you implement this method,
you do whatever you need
to do and return yes,
and make your app seem
like magic as well.
Just like that.
So we also allow you to now move
VoiceOver focus if you need to.
Sometimes you want the voiceover to
be at a specific place in your app to
learn and understand what's going on.
Before 6.0,
that was quite challenging to do.
So now what you can do is use the
argument for the accessibility
notification for either layout change
or screen change and pass in an element
that you want voiceover to move to.
So, for example,
if I have a screen change and I want
voiceover to move to a specific button,
I can do that passing in as an argument.
You can also now find out when
voiceover finishes speaking something.
Finishes speaking what?
There's another notification that
I haven't mentioned yet called
the announcement notification.
That came out in 4.0.
And the announcement notification allows
you to tell voiceover to speak something.
Any string you want.
Now, this is sort of nice if you need to
have an announcement or the screen
changes or something's happening
that's not immediately clear.
You can use that to inform the
voiceover user what's going on.
But if you needed to string multiple
instances of those together,
for example, you're reading sort of a
book in a row or something,
you wouldn't know when
voiceover is finished speaking.
So you would interrupt what voiceover
-- what you told voiceover to speak.
So now you can listen for the
announcement did finish notification.
And that's an NS notification
center notification.
And when that comes in,
you know that voiceover is
finished speaking your string.
We've added a new API to help you
order things when voiceover is
navigating through your interface.
So what do I mean?
Let's look at the clock app, for example.
The clock app has all these little alarms
and sort of a random grid of array.
And you would like voiceover
users to navigate through
them in a specific order.
How do you navigate?
Through a single finger swipe,
left or right.
So as you're doing this,
swiping through left or right,
by default, voiceover is going to go
top left to bottom right.
So it's going to go sort of
row by row through things.
If you want to order them differently,
you should group accessibility children.
And that tells voiceover that these
things in this view should be together.
We've added a new trait,
the UI accessibility trait header.
So this screenshot of Game Center,
I would identify two things as
possibly being the header in this case.
So they allow you to identify the
VoiceOver that said this thing is sort of
like a heading over some sort of content.
And that can be useful for
locating where you want to be or
understanding the layout of the app.
So let's go back to our app and see
what we can do to use some of this
new API to make it even better.
So the second demo bugs,
what do we want to do?
Let's implement this magic
tap and see what we can do.
Let's try to move VoiceOver focus
when the question mark disappears.
So when you press this X button,
let's try to move VoiceOver focus
to something more appropriate
like maybe the status view.
So we can try to move VoiceOver
[Transcript missing]
on here to on the NSZombie Apocalypse
heading to identify that appropriately.
All right.
So first up, perform magic tap.
So I'm going to go to my app delegate and
Override this.
Return yes.
And you can implement perform
magic tap on an object,
an individual object,
or a parent in the view
hierarchy or the UI application
or the UI application delegate.
VoiceOver will go up the chain of things,
trying out each one.
And I think what we
should do is toggle pause.
So I know this is a fast-moving game.
It's very challenging.
If you get tired and need a break,
you should be able to pause it.
Move VoiceOver focus to the status
when the question mark disappears.
Let's go to our view controller.
Help did close.
This looks appropriate.
Now let's just pass in status view.
Done.
Should group children on
the button collection view.
How do we make these
things order together?
There's a nice button collection view.
And then here...
Let's return yes for that.
And then the heading trait
on the question mark title.
So help view.
There's a giant label here somewhere.
This looks like it.
: You can set the accessibility
traits to be the right.
is running.
NSZombie Apocalypse.
So what do we do?
So the first thing,
the swipe order of this
should be together.
Self-delock, self-reli-self-watch,
garbage, arc, help, button.
So if you notice I swiping through I went
from... Self-self-self-self-garbage-arc,
help, button.
I went through all the buttons and then
after that I went to that help button.
So buttons ordered together.
Good.
Things are working.
We did the magic tap.
paused.
Zombies are finally paused.
You can go get a break and
get yourself an Odwalla.
When you're -- can double tap and
start the game again if you need to.
What else do we want to do when... Help.
NSZombie Apocalypse.
Heading.
Great.
That thing says heading
just like we asked it to.
And finally when we close this one,
we should move back to that status view.
Memory leak, three megabytes.
Great.
So we closed that thing and we told
VoiceOver to move to a specific
element and it worked just fine.
So let's go back and talk
about some other cool things.
Let's talk about some of
the more deeper topics.
If you've made your
app accessible already,
you may have had a standard app.
It might have gone very easily.
But chances are that as your
apps become more complicated,
you need to use some other
accessibility techniques to continue
to ensure your apps remain accessible.
The first thing I want to talk about
is what happens if there is no view.
So, for example,
you're using draw at point with a string.
You're using overriding draw rect.
Maybe you're using OpenGL.
A good example is Maps.
Obviously,
there's not a new UI view for every road.
So what do we do in this case?
So what you want to do is make an
array of UI accessibility elements.
UI accessibility element is
basically just a container
for some idea in your program.
So for every distinct interface
object that you want to expose,
make a new element.
How does this work?
So, for example,
say we have an array of roads.
We want to gather all of our roads
together and return those as elements
so VoiceOver can interact with them.
First thing we need to
do is make the element.
So we do that by initing it.
Notice the accessibility container
should be the view that does the drawing.
So VoiceOver starts by drilling
down through the view hierarchy
starting at the window and then
all the views all the way down.
If your view is the last thing before it
starts drawing random things everywhere,
then that is the accessibility container.
You need to set the accessibility
label for that object so
VoiceOver can speak something.
And then maybe you want
to store that in an array.
So it's good to cache these things.
VoiceOver will ask for them often.
So if you can cache them in
some sort of array or something,
it will make life easier.
So next up,
how do we tell VoiceOver what they are?
So we want to implement what we call
the UI accessibility container protocol.
Three methods,
pretty much just like NSArray.
First one, the count.
How many accessibility
elements are there?
Easy enough if you have
an array set there,
you can just return the count.
Next up, what's the index of an
accessibility element?
Here you can mirror index
of object from NSArray.
And finally,
what's the element at an index?
Again, mirrors NSArray.
So six or so lines of code.
Pretty simple if you have this
modeled on an array to start with.
[Transcript missing]
This is what UI accessibility
announcements are good for.
So for example, if we have a continued
tracking method where we're
tracking where this object is,
we can detect when things happen
and tell VoiceOver about it.
So for example, if we're near an edge,
we can tell VoiceOver you're
nearing the left border,
you're nearing the top border,
nearing the bottom border.
If we are on empty space,
we can say on empty space,
lift finger to cancel.
And if we're over
something that's important,
we can say on top of artist,
lift finger to replace.
So notice here I've pound defined
post to be the much longer
UI accessibility post notification.
That's just so it fits on the slide.
The last thing I wanted to talk about
is direct touch or direct interaction.
This is designed as a way for you
to allow VoiceOver to interact with
something that is very dynamic.
A good example is a keyboard.
Keyboard really requires you
to press things in real time.
You don't want to
double tap on every key.
That would be a very tedious
way of making a song.
VoiceOver allows you to do
this by setting the direct
interaction trait on an object.
When you do that,
it means a certain area will allow
VoiceOver to interact with it directly.
You can also allow VoiceOver to explore
elements within the direct touch area.
This keyboard is composed of
many keys that have information.
For example,
you might know that this is a C3
key and you might want to inform
the VoiceOver user of that.
So how does that work?
Well,
VoiceOver has a number of gestures to
control things and one of the things they
control is whether direct touch or direct
interaction is on by default or off.
So if they turn it off,
they can continue exploring an area.
When they turn it on,
they can interact with it.
So some code to show how you do that.
Maybe you have something
like a piano view.
And in your accessibility
traits of piano view,
you'll return the appropriate trait,
which is this direct interaction trait.
Notice that it is an accessibility
element because this is what you
want VoiceOver to interact with.
But you can also set the objects within
this view as accessibility elements.
So a VoiceOver user can explore
things within a direct touch area.
So sort of a nice trick to
remember if you have an app
that uses this kind of paradigm.
So let's take a look at how we can
make our app even more accessible
using some of these techniques.
And I want to try to use the use
announcements while dragging technique
to provide a little bit more information.
So the one thing that might
have been hard about this app is
where do you drag those buttons,
especially if you can't see?
So I believe we have some
helpful methods here.
Button selected, button dragged,
button finished.
So I think we can make this a better
experience by posting some notifications
That tell you what to do.
So when the button is first selected,
what should we say?
My guess is something like
drag button over zombies.
: That should be good enough.
Now, when you're dragging,
there's a few different states.
First example,
if the button is inside of the
iPad view and it's the first
time inside the iPad view,
We should probably say something
appropriate like lift to deploy memory.
And if you've left the iPad
view for the first time,
maybe we can say,
"No longer over Zombies.
Live to cancel."
[Transcript missing]
So just by providing a
few extra announcements,
a few lines of code,
you can make your app,
even if it requires a lot of interaction,
make it a lot more usable.
So final topic I want to mention
are things that you may not have
known about UI accessibility.
Some cool things that you
can do if you've really gone
into the advanced techniques.
So one is control the
language of the entire app.
So how do we do that?
You can set the accessibility
language on a UI application.
So accessibility language is another
attribute that tells VoiceOver what
language to use when it speaks.
If you want it for the entire
app or just a specific element,
you set it on the right thing.
You can also set it for
a range within a string.
So for example, let's say we have an
attributed string that has some
Japanese and some English in it.
And you want VoiceOver to
speak with using a certain
language for a certain range.
You can add the attribute
accessibility language with
the right value for that range.
Now the values for these things
are some standard Unicode thing.
J-A-J-P is Japanese.
F-R, F-R is France, French.
Easy enough to find a list of them
and the ones that VoiceOver supports.
And then once you have that,
you can use that as the
accessibility label.
So accessibility label
says it takes a string.
You don't have to
believe it all the time.
You can also pass in an attribute
to string if you want to.
Now that attributed strings are
much more prevalent in iOS 6,
How do you deal with
controls without views?
So there's a few controls in iOS
that are challenging to get at.
One of them is the UI segmented control,
specifically, you know,
something that looks like that
where you want to override it
to say something different than
degree sign F or degree sign C.
In this case, in weather,
you would like it to say
Fahrenheit or Celsius.
So how do you get at those things?
Normally, you create your UI segmented
controls with the NSString or image.
So in that case,
just set the accessibility
label on the NSString itself.
or if you have an image,
just set the accessibility label directly
on the image and then when you insert
those things into the segmented controls,
VoiceOver will pick that up
and speak the right thing.
Another example is
UI table view index titles.
Here's a thing that you return an
array of strings for a table to get
the ones that you want to appear.
You can change what VoiceOver speaks
for each of these things as well
by overriding the accessibility
label and setting that on NSString.
So, in summary, obviously,
we want you to add
accessibility to your app.
I think you guys are
all committed already.
That's why you're here.
It's an important task.
The reasons are numerous.
Just a few of them.
One is going to increase your user base.
Obviously,
you want more users using your apps.
So, that's a good reason.
I think another great reason
is that you get a lot of really
good feedback from users.
So, users are very excited when they
find out that an app is accessible.
It's really nice and rewarding
to get that kind of feedback.
And finally,
Apple takes accessibility seriously.
It is a partnership with developers.
We are working hand in hand to
try to make the most accessible
platform that's ever existed.
And it really requires
Apple's commitment.
And your commitment to ensure that
everything works as well as it can.
So, I think this is a really worthy goal.
Something that you should be
telling your friends about.
It makes for a really compelling use
case for iOS to see just everyone
being able to use this device.
And getting the same satisfaction
that all of us do every day.
If you're interested in related sessions,
there's an accessibility
in iBooks session tomorrow.
And if you want to make
a custom text view,
like I mentioned, keyboard input in iOS
is a good one to attend.
And lots of more information.
There's accessibility programming
guideline which will repeat a
lot of the stuff that I said
here about common attributes,
protocol reference,
and then VoiceOver user
manual will tell you all the
gestures that VoiceOver can do.
So, I think it's quite useful.
Thanks for coming out and
attending WWDC 2012 and keep
making great accessible apps.
Thank you.